# TimeSeriesAnalysis-Forecasting
This project is about Time Series Analysis &amp; Forecasting with ARIMA and SARIMA models
Description
Time series data is defined as an ordered sequence of temporal values of a quantitative variable at equally spaced time intervals. Such data are usually collected and gathered when monitoring industrial processes or tracking corporate business metrics. Values are quantitative and measured sequentially in time over some interval. Time series analysis has been exploited for many applications, e.g., sales forecasting, economic forecasting, budgetary analysis, yield projections, stock market analysis, census analysis, process, and quality control, inventory studies, workload projections, utility studies (Pant, Anjali and Rajput, R.. (2019). Time Series Analysis of Gold Price Using R).
Time series Analysis is one of the most applied Machine Learning and Data Science techniques in various businesses and industriesuch as retail, financial, supply chain management, agricultural and many more. However, Machine learning for time series is not as known or popularly discussed as others. Techniques such as pattern recognition, object recongnition, speech recognition and natural language processing, often garner more attention in the Data Science world.
Expected outcome
Our prediction task was to forecast the monthly average gold prices from August 2020 to August 2021, taking the data from January 2017 - July 2020 as input.
There are several forecasting techniques available, based on varying assumptions, mathematical hypothesis and model parameters. For better forecasting result, it is important to find the appropriate technique and the best-fit model for a given time series data. In our project, we first analysed our time series data, considering the nature and structure of it, then developed various models using different methodologies in an attempt to find the model best-suited for our dataset.
